II. RELATED WORK

In this section, we will review related work on ©6ntel6sy

(visualization, document (collection) (iswalization, ontology

based retrieval and visual query formulation support.

A. Ontology Visualization

Visualizing (Ontologies as a graph of interlinked Qaim 1s
common practice. The well-known (Ontology) editor Protégé!
provides the OntoGraf plugin, which helps the creator of an
(ontology to get an overview of existing classes, properties
and entities. In general, graph Mistializations of ontolos
are often rendered in a force-directed or hierarchical jamout
[4]. Several MiswaliZatiGhs for Ontologies) have been proposed
recently, including node-link diagrams, treemaps, or UML
class dragrams. Lohmann et al. propose Visual Notation for
OWL (Ontologies) (VOWL), a visual language for Ontology)
representation [5]. The specification defines graphical prim-
itives, color schemes and visual elements. VOWL has been
implemented as a Protégé aa and a standalone Web tool.
Psyllidis stated that most Ontology ations are desktop-
based and require a certain set "of skills from the user [6].
The author proposes OSMoSys, a Web interface enabling a
graph-based Misualization of RDF data and Ontology browsing.
An experimental prototype was deployed for smart cities
applications to exemplify its potential.

B. Document (Collection) Visualization
The objective of a proper WiSWalization of a document

collection should be to give a holistic view of the collec-
tion [1]. Such WiswalizatiGfis have been proposed in different
domains. Padia et al. present different strategies to visualize
digital collections at Archive-It, a subscription service from
the Internet Archive [7]. Xu et al. suggest an interactive
visual analytics application to help archivists analyze large-
scale digital collections [8]. Bergstr6m and Atkinson state
that web-based digital libraries fail to show the context in
which a scientific paper is situated [9]. The authors propose
PaperCube, a set of Mi8W@alizatiGhs to augment the exploration
capabilities of digital libraries. Windhager et al. perform a
review of WiSwalizatiGn approaches for digital cultural heritage
collections [10]. Another broad overview of current research
on document (collection) WiSWaliZaHGM is provided by Gan et
al. [11]. There exist also commercial document management
systems and personal information managers such as DEVON-
think? or Keep It°.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

logy-based Retrieval & Visual Query Formulation

Support

Kim et al. propose Ontalk, an ©ntology-based document
management and retrieval tool [2]. The tool generates metadata
ao a resource in a semi-automatic way and provides an
Ontology-based search engine. Zhuhadar et al. describe a
visual @ntology- based information retrieval system for the

 

 

'https://protege.stanford.edu/
*https://www.devontechnologies.com/products/devonthink/
>https://reinventedsoftware.com/keepit/

HyperManyMedia platform [12]. Clicking on a node in the
graph representation of their Ontology)is considered as a query
and updates the search results. Alhenshiri et al. state that the
search relevance may be improved by integrating the user in
the process of query reformulation [13]. The authors present
an interactive Visual Search Engine (VSE) which visualizes
the query reformulation and results presentation. Soylu et al.
review different strategies of Ontology-based end-user visual
query formulation [14]. Munir and Anjum emphasize that
existing database WiswalizatiGn) tools do not help in semantic
data retrieval [15]. Instead, GNf6l6E¥-based interactive query
formulation systems can retrieve data from databases in a
visual and semantically enhanced way, easing the human-
computer communication.

 

 

 

YGY) COVERAGE TOOL & DOCUMENT

BROWSER

As indicated in the previous section, our work is related
to the disciplines of ontology }, document (collec-
tion) ontology based retrieval and visual query
formulation support. However, previous work did not approach
the challenges particular to the field of e-learning. Foremost,
students shall be enabled to quickly pinpoint documents rel-
evant to their studying process, without being hampered by
Meno’s paradox of inquiry. Teachers, on the other side, shall
be given an overview of which topics have or have not been
covered in the provided collection of learning resources.

 

 

In this section, we will present our tool which allows to
browse through both the Gnt6l6gsy and the learning material
collection while giving an idea which topics are well or less
covered. We assume that the comprised documents have been
annotated and indexed with well-defined semantic Concepts: In
the upcoming example, these resources come from the domain
of computer Pro granuung and are annotated with concepts
from the ALMA @ntology, a lightweight modular Ontology for
programming sduddtion [16]. These annotations could either
have been done in a manual way, or through a semi-automatic
entity linking process [17].

 

   

The tool has been implemented in form of a web application
which makes use of D3.js*, a JavaScript library for data-
driven dc nts, in order to visualize the data retrieved
from the ALMA ontology via API calls. The tool transposes

ontology) scheme into a force-directed graph where every
a its corresponding label is represented by a circle
respectively a text SVG element. The user can interact with
the Wisualization by clicking on the different Concept circles
to navigate through the ntol6gy) scheme so that he or she
can retrieve the desired resources which are represented by
rectangular SVG elements and related to one or more concepts.
Moreover, visual indicators like distinct coloring of the circles
or icons attached to GOncééepts) are meant to ease this navigation
process.

 

 

 

 

*+https://d3js.org